Separate out primitives (#4640)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/estimator-broadcasting.mdx

---
title: Broadcasting
description: How Estimator handles array inputs and outputs using broadcasting semantics

---

> # Estimator broadcasting semantics

Reviewer: I'm confused why we have this separate broadcasting page, when it's content is the same as the broadcasting described [here](https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/en/guides/primitive-input-output#broadcasting-rules). And this page even link to that other page.

Author: Good question; I'll remove it.

Following are some examples of common patterns expressed in terms of array broadcasting.  Their accompanying visual representation is shown in the figure that follows:

Parameter value sets are represented by n x m arrays, and observable arrays are represented by one or more single-column arrays. For each example in the previous code, the parameter value sets are combined with their observable array to create the resulting expectation value estimates.

- *Example 1*: (broadcast single observable) has a parameter value set that is a 5x1 array and a 1x1 observables array.  The one item in the observables array is combined with each item in the parameter value set to create a single 5x1 array where each item is a combination of the original item in the parameter value set with the item in the observables array.

> - *Example 2*: (zip) has a 5x1 parameter value set and a 5x1 observables array.  The output is a 5x1 array where each item is a combination of the nth item in the parameter value set with the nth item in the observables array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Example 2*: (zip) has a 5x1 parameter value set and a 5x1 observables array.  The output is a 5x1 array where each item is a combination of the $n^{th}$ item in the parameter value set with the $n^{th}$ item in the observables array.
```
